---
layout: post
title: BCIs
tags: [bcis, science]
---

### The Hardest Problem in Neuroscience is the skull.

#### How the Brain Works
The Brain has 85 Billion Neurons and 85 Billion Glia

Glia in the central nervous system are divided into four kinds:

- Astrocytes (20-40%) - Gradient Following Badasses, star shaped, envelop synapses, wrap foreign bodies, are the bane of implant designers but ignore things less than 10-15 microns (neuron body size, perhaps a coincidence but likely not)
- Microglia - Basically white blood cells (the brain has its own freaking immune system)
- Oligodendrocytes - wrap neurons to help with electrical tranmission
- Ependyma - important for neuroregeneration and creating cerebrospinal fluid.  Lines the walls of the ventricals
___
Dura Fibroblasts 

Ben Barres: brought scientific attention to the important role of Gilia in the brain. Incidentally, also an incredibly valuable perspective on sexism since Ben was a academic before and after sex change.
More on Gilia cells.

¾ of all neurons are in the cerebellum.… but people can get by without it. Cerebellum neurons are tiny.

Neurons are a many->one->many mapping. Many things activate voltage spikes which then cause many effects.

Visual-semantic boundary. <NEED DETAIL>
#### Interfacing with the Brain Now

##### What can we do with BCIs Now?
You can do XY control with 50 Electrodes
One current use of BCIs is allowing people to control external things like artificial limbs. This can be done either with Biomimetic or Co-Adaptive interfaces. Biomimetic interfaces try to map the original control intent of the brain. Co-adaptive interfaces require some remapping from the brain through training.

##### Measuring brain activity and structure.

One way to do control is to project signals into a 400 dimensional space and then back down into a control system with a few degrees of freedom.

The Utah Array is currently the standard way of creating an electronic BCI.

Other Tools Besides Voltage Sensors
- Optical Tools - interact with calcium ions via two photon control
These image deep inside the brain with lasers fired for 50 fempto (10-15) seconds. A gaussian times another gaussian is a sharper gaussian. 
Need special genes that fluoresce with the laser.
- Glutamate Detectors
- fMRI

From Carson McNeil:

>“For an fMRI researcher I trash a lot on fMRI. But in conversation with Ben I wanted to clarify why I think this is worth spending some years of my life on. Nobody thinks MRI is going to be a BCI itself. There is this algorithmic development argument which is mAyBe not BS. But I think it's easy to overlook a more basic way that fMRI research will be essential to the process. Unless something magical is invented, we will get to a point where more people want invasive BCIs. (even if it's minimally invasive, using transcranial injections and such) The initial human implants will definitely still be limited in coverage by the time we actually want to use them. And there's a good chance they will involve kinda nutty people getting kinda risky surgeries. So WE GOTTA KNOW WHERE TO STICK THE WIRES. Without a good understanding of the overall structure of the brain, and what information is where, and how that information might be used, implants are left with an incredibly expensive and dangerous hunt-and-poke problem. I think for the first human implants, you're gonna want to do a lot of really good functional mapping of an individual before doing the surgery, just to get the optimal implant site, especially if you want implants that interact with more than just motor function. “

#### Interfacing with the Brain in the Future
Eyes as a BCI - there are shockingly few holes in skull that go to the brain. The optic nerve runs directly from the eyes to the brain. Bengio gave a definition of how backprop is equivalent to some biological stuff. There is debate here. Hinton thinks otherwise.

Lorentz-force imager

Neural Dust

Challenges and Questions
Attention Paradox [NEED DETAIL]
  What is attention?
Argument for natural Stimulus [NEED DETAIL]
Will we have more Neuroshaming? People with funny shaped brains.
Where does physical intuition come from?
Need more non polar things to get through the blood brain barrier

### Further Reading!

